Power Query Editor:
Change table/dataset name
Rename columns
Remove columns
Change data type
Pivot columns:You can pivot columns to transform values into new columns and summarize data. 
      First, select the column you want to pivot and click Pivot Column in the Transform tab. 
      Then, select the column for the values to summarize and click OK.
      It will create new columns from the values of the pivoted column and summarize the data.
Unpivot Columns option to translate columns into attribute-value pairs.

Merge columns:merge multiple columns to combine related data or simplify analysis.go to the Transform tab and click Merge Columns. 
Then, select the separator you want to use between the column values, enter a name for the merged column, and click OK.

Merge columns of different table:Merge as new or merge in existing table by choose foriegn key and choose which columns to be merged.

Append:a technique used when you want to stack rows from multiple tables on top of each other, effectively creating a larger dataset.
This is particularly useful when the tables have the same structure (i.e., identical column names and data types)
Append Queries: Over-writes the table currently
Append Queries As New: Creates new table

Append stacks tables vertically to add new rows of data, while Merge joins two tables horizontally to add new columns.

new conditional column
Replace “null” values
Split columns:go to the Transform tab, click Split Column, and select By delimiter
You can choose to split the column at the left-most, right-most, or at every occurrence of the delimiter.

Filter rows

Group by & aggregration
Folder as a source

Data Modelling:
Data modeling is the process of creating a structured representation of data to define how it is stored, organized, and related within a system, 
serving as a blueprint for database design and ensuring data consistency, integrity, and scalability

Star Schema (Fact and Dimensions)
Fact Table:Each row in a fact table corresponds to a measurement event.
The data on each row is at a specific level of detail, referred to as the grain, 
such as one row per product sold on a sales transaction.
The most useful facts are numeric and additive, such as dollar sales amount.

Dimension Table:
Dimension tables are integral companions to a fact table.
The dimension tables contain the textual context associated with a business process measurement event. 
They describe the “who, what, where, when, how, and why” associated with the event.

1)Create table relationships
keep fact table at bottom and dimension table at top
2)Relationship
3)Calendar table:should mark it as date table and mark which column is date
4)Hide fields (foreign keys to avoid confusion while creating reports)
5)Active and inactive relationships (multiple dates)
6)Focus on building a normalized model in star schema format
7)Use 1 to many relationships as much as possible

More the normalization,less the redundancy

DAX:
Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) is a formula expression language used in Power BI, and Power Pivot in Excel. DAX formulas include 
functions, operators, and values to perform advanced calculations and queries on data in related tables and columns in tabular data models
1)Calculated column:
A calculated column in Power BI is a new column added to a table that uses a Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) formula to compute its values row by row. It is created by selecting "New column" and writing a formula, which can be used in visuals like slicers and filters. 
These columns are static, meaning their results are calculated during data refresh and stored, which can increase the model's size. 
Values are calculated based on information from each row of a table (row context).
Appends static values to each row in a table and stores them in the model (which increases file size).
Use this if you need the value in screen and table.
2)Measure:
Values are calculated based on information from any filters in the report (filter context).
Does not create new data in the tables themselves (doesn't increase file size).
Primarily used for aggregating values in report visuals.
Measures always need an aggregation function
Used this if you need the value in the screen

DAX Operators:
Maths&Stats:count,countrows,distinctcount,sum,average,max,min
Switch - Switch with exact value match((single item , 2 items, 2+ items) and True(customer segmentation using order value)

Edit Interactions:To apply a filter or slicer to only some visuals in Power BI, select the slicer, go to the Format tab, and click Edit interactions. 
Then, for each visual on the page, click the "None" icon to prevent the slicer from filtering it, or the "Filter" icon to allow it to be filtered
Related :The RELATED function requires that a relationship exists between the current table and the table with related information.
You specify the column that contains the data that you want, and the function follows an existing many-to-one relationship to fetch the value from the specified column in the related table.
If a relationship does not exist, you must create a relationship.

'X' is for iterative
SUMX:returns sum of an expression evaluated to each row in a table.
CALCULATE:Evaluates an expression in a modified filter context.We cannot use Measure in a Calculate function
ALL:Returns all the rows in a table, or all the values in a column, ignoring any filters that might have been applied.
This function is useful for clearing filters and creating calculations on all the rows in a table
Example : Percent of total sales for each category
All sales : Calculate(total sales , all(orders))
% of all -> divide total sales / all sales 
FILTER:Returns a table that represents a subset of another table or expression
Filter iterates through each row in the table . It returns a table so it is generally nested with other functions like calculate / sumx that requires a table as an argument.
We can use measures to filter data within FILTER function.

FILTER -works on row context
MEASURE & CALCUATE -works on filter context
USERELATIONSHIP:Specifies the relationship to be used in a specific calculation as the one that exists between columnName1 and columnName2.

Time Intelligence Functions:
Show in a new file with date columns having calendar table inbuilt 
Then show using calendar table 

DATESYTD() - Returns dates from the year-to-date period
DATESMTD() - Returns dates from the month-to-date period
DATESQTD() - Returns dates from the quarter-to-date period
TOTALMTD() - Evaluates month-to-date value of an expression
TOTALQTD() - Evaluates quarter-to-date value of an expression
TOTALYTD() - Evaluates year-to-date value of an expression
PARALLELPERIOD() - Returns dates from a parallel period.Normally used for comparison with previous months
DATEADD() - Returns a table with dates shifted forward or backward in time
DATESINPERIOD() - Returns dates from a period relative to the given date.Used in Rolling months sales



